Enumerating AD is a massive task. Proper AD enumeration is required to better understand the structure of the domain and determine attack paths that can be leveraged to perform privilege escalation or lateral movement.

Additional Enumeration Techniques

In this network, we covered several techniques that can be used to enumerate AD. This is by no means an exhaustive list. Here is a list of enumeration techniques that also deserve mention:

LDAP enumeration - Any valid AD credential pair should be able to bind to a Domain Controller's LDAP interface. This will allow you to write LDAP search queries to enumerate information regarding the AD objects in the domain.
PowerView - PowerView is a recon script part of the PowerSploit project. Although this project is no longer receiving support, scripts such as PowerView can be incredibly useful to perform semi-manual enumeration of AD objects in a pinch.
Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) - WMI can be used to enumerate information from Windows hosts. It has a provider called "root\directory\ldap" that can be used to interact with AD. We can use this provider and WMI in PowerShell to perform AD enumeration.
We should also note that this room focussed on enumerating the structure of the AD domain in its entirety instead of concentrating only on identifying misconfigurations and weaknesses. Enumeration focused on identifying weaknesses, such as insecure shares or breaks in the tiering model, will be discussed in future rooms.

Mitigations

AD enumeration is incredibly hard to defend against. Many of these techniques mimic regular network traffic and behaviour, making it difficult to distinguish malicious traffic from normal traffic. However, there are a couple of things that we can do to detect potentially malicious behaviour:

Powerful AD enumeration techniques such as Sharphound generate a significant amount of LogOn events when enumerating session information. Since it executes from a single AD account, these LogOn events will be associated with this single account. We can write detection rules to detect this type of behaviour if it occurs from a user account.
We can write signature detection rules for the tools that must be installed for specific AD enumeration techniques, such as the SharpHound binaries and the AD-RSAT tooling.
Unless used by employees of our organisation, we can monitor the use of Command Prompt and Powershell in our organisation to detect potential enumeration attempts from unauthorised sources.
On a side note, the blue team themselves can also regularly use these enumeration techniques to identify gaps and misconfigurations in the structure of the AD domain. If we can resolve these misconfigurations, even if an attacker enumerates our AD, they would not be able to find misconfigurations that can be exploited for privilege escalation or lateral movement.

Now that we have enumerated AD, the next step is to perform privilege escalation and lateral movement across the domain to get into a suitable position to stage attacks