Sometimes, we need more than just persisting to normal AD groups. What if we want to persist to all protected groups simultaneously?

Persisting through AD Group Templates:
    In order to ensure a bit better persistence and make the blue team scratch their heads, 
    We should rather inject into the templates that generate the default groups.
    By injecting into these templates, even if they remove our membership, we just need to wait until the template refreshes, and we will once again be granted membership.

-Such template is the "AdminSDHolder" container (This container exists in every AD domain, and its Access Control List (ACL)

-A process called SDProp takes the ACL of the AdminSDHolder container and applies it to all protected groups every 60 minutes. 
We can thus write an ACE that will grant us full permissions on all protected groups. 

Every time they (Blue Team) remove the inappropriate permission on the protected object or group, it reappears within the hour


Persisting with AdminSDHolder:
    In order to deploy our persistence to the AdminSDHolder, we will use Microsoft Management Console (MMC)
    We will use RDP with Low Privilege account 
    We use the runas command to inject the Administrator credentials, and then execute MMC from this new terminal:
        runas /netonly /user:thmchilddc.tryhackme.loc\Administrator cmd.exe

Once you have an MMC window, add the Users and Groups Snap-in (File->Add Snap-In->Active Directory Users and Computers). 
    -Make sure to enable Advanced Features (View->Advanced Features). We can find the AdminSDHolder group under Domain->System
    -Navigate to the Security of the group (Right-click->Properties->Security)

Let's add our low-privileged user and grant Full Control:
    -Click Add.
    -Search for your low-privileged username and click Check Names.
    -Click OK.
    -Click Allow on Full Control.
    -Click Apply.
    -Click OK.

SDProp:
    Now we just need to wait 60 minutes, and our user will have full control over all Protected Groups. 
    This is because the Security Descriptor Propagator (SDProp) service executes automatically every 60 minutes and will propagate this change to all Protected Groups.

    However, since we do not like to wait:
        We using Powershell. In the C:\Tools\ directory, a script Invoke-ADSDPropagation:
            PS C:\Tools> Import-Module .\Invoke-ADSDPropagation.ps1 
            PS C:\Tools> Invoke-ADSDPropagation

    Once done, give it a minute and then review the security permissions of a Protected Group such as the Domain Admins group

    As can be seen, our low privilege user has full control over the group. 
    You can verify that this will continue to propagate by removing your user from the security permissions and rerunning the PowerShell script. 
    Your user will be added again. Interestingly, although we have permissions to modify the group, it does not automatically add us to the group.

    However, using our new permissions, we can add ourselves to this group.

