There are several different ways that we can persist in AD. 
Some of these techniques persist better than others. 
In order to ensure that your persistence cannot be removed by the blue team, you will have to think creatively about your persistence. 
Furthermore, you should not wait until the full domain compromise to deploy persistence. 
After each round of lateral movement and privilege escalation, persistence should be deployed

Additional Persistence Techniques

In this network, we covered several techniques that can be used to persist in AD. This is by no means an exhaustive list. Here is a list of persistence techniques that also deserve mention:

-Skeleton keys - Using Mimikatz, we can deploy a skeleton key. Mimikatz created a default password that will work for any account in the domain. Normal passwords will still work, making it hard to know that this attack has taken place. This default password can be used to impersonate any account in the domain.
-Directory Service Restore Mode (DSRM) - Domain controllers have an internal break glass administrator account called the DSRM account. This password is set when the server is promoted to a DC and is seldom changed. This password is used in cases of emergencies to recover the DC. An attacker can extract this password using Mimikatz and use this password to gain persistent administrative access to domain controllers in the environment.
-Malicious Security Support Provider (SSP) - Exploiting the SSP interface, it is possible to add new SSPs. We can add Mimikatz's mimilib as an SSP that would log all credentials of authentication attempts to a file. We can specify a network location for logging, which would allow mimilib to send us credentials as users authenticate to the compromised host, providing persistence.
-Computer Accounts - The passwords for machine accounts are normally rotated every 30 days. However, we can alter the password of a machine account which would stop the automatic rotation. Together with this, we can grant the machine account administrative access to other machines. This will allow us to use the computer account as a normal account, with the only sign of the persistence being the fact that the account has administrative rights over other hosts, which is often normal behaviour in AD, so that it may go undetected.

We should also note that this room focussed on persistence techniques in AD. 
Several local persistence techniques can also allow for persistence on hosts. 
If these hosts are domain joined, it will allow for persistence in AD as well.

Mitigations

AD persistence can be a pain to defend against. In certain cases, the persistence can be so deeply rooted that a complete domain rebuild is required. 

However, there are a couple of things that we can do to detect deployed persistence:
Anomalous account logon events are the most common alert for persistence. Any time credentials break the tiering model, it can be as a result of persistence.
For each of the persistence techniques mentioned, specific detection rules can be written, such as cases when a machine account's password changes, ACLs are permissively updated, or new GPOs are created.
The best defence against persistence is to protect privileged resources. Although low privileged access can be used to deploy persistence, the truly scary techniques only become available once an attacker has acquired privileged access to the domain.
This concludes the AD module. We have learned about the basics of AD, how to breach an AD environment, enumerate it, perform exploitation, and deeply root ourselves in with persistence. This module is just an introduction. There is still a lot to learn about AD security. Time to spread your wings and do some of your own exploration!